Please Refer the following website for detailed requirement information - https://docs.flutter.dev/get-started/install/windows/desktop

Requirement as per flutter official website is mentioned below

Hardware requirements
#
Your Windows Flutter development environment must meet the following minimal hardware requirements.

Requirement	Minimum	Recommended
x86_64 CPU Cores	4	8
Memory in GB	8	16
Display resolution in pixels	WXGA (1366 x 768)	FHD (1920 x 1080)
Free disk space in GB	4.0	52.0
Software requirements
#
To write and compile Flutter code for desktop, you must have the following version of Windows and the listed software packages.

Operating system
#
Flutter supports 64-bit version of Microsoft Windows 10 or later. These versions of Windows should include the required Windows PowerShell 5 or later.

Development tools
#
Download and install the Windows version of the following packages:

Git for Windows 2.27 or later to manage source code.

Visual Studio 2022 to debug and compile native C++ Windows code. Make sure to install the Desktop development with C++ workload. This enables building Windows app including all of its default components. Visual Studio is an IDE separate from Visual Studio Code.

The developers of the preceding software provide support for those products. To troubleshoot installation issues, consult that product's documentation.

When you run the current version of flutter doctor, it might list a different version of one of these packages. If it does, install the version it recommends.

Configure a text editor or IDE
#
You can build apps with Flutter using any text editor or integrated development environment (IDE) combined with Flutter's command-line tools.

Using an IDE with a Flutter extension or plugin provides code completion, syntax highlighting, widget editing assists, debugging, and other features.

Popular options include:

Visual Studio Code 1.77 or later with the Flutter extension for VS Code.
Android Studio 2023.2.1 (Iguana) or later with the Flutter plugin for IntelliJ.
IntelliJ IDEA 2023.2 or later with the Flutter plugin for IntelliJ.
Recommended
The Flutter team recommends installing Visual Studio Code 1.77 or later and the Flutter extension for VS Code. This combination simplifies installing the Flutter SDK.

Install the Flutter SDK
#
To install the Flutter SDK, you can use the VS Code Flutter extension or download and install the Flutter bundle yourself.

Use VS Code to install
Download and install
Use VS Code to install Flutter
#
To install Flutter using these instructions, verify that you have installed Visual Studio Code 1.77 or later and the Flutter extension for VS Code.

Prompt VS Code to install Flutter
#
Launch VS Code.

To open the Command Palette, press Control + Shift + P.

In the Command Palette, type flutter.

Select Flutter: New Project.

VS Code prompts you to locate the Flutter SDK on your computer.

If you have the Flutter SDK installed, click Locate SDK.

If you do not have the Flutter SDK installed, click Download SDK.

This option sends you the Flutter install page if you have not installed Git for Windows as directed in the development tools prerequisites.

When prompted Which Flutter template?, ignore it. Press Esc. You can create a test project after checking your development setup.

Download the Flutter SDK
#
When the Select Folder for Flutter SDK dialog displays, choose where you want to install Flutter.

VS Code places you in your user profile to start. Choose a different location.

Consider %USERPROFILE% or C:\dev.

Warning
Don't install Flutter to a directory or path that meets one or both of the following conditions:

The path contains special characters or spaces.
The path requires elevated privileges.
As an example, C:\Program Files fails both conditions.

Click Clone Flutter.

While downloading Flutter, VS Code displays this pop-up notification:

Downloading the Flutter SDK. This may take a few minutes.
content_copy
This download takes a few minutes. If you suspect that the download has hung, click Cancel then start the installation again.

Once it finishes downloading Flutter, the Output panel displays.

Checking Dart SDK version...
Downloading Dart SDK from the Flutter engine ...
Expanding downloaded archive...
content_copy
When successful, VS Code displays this pop-up notification:

Initializing the Flutter SDK. This may take a few minutes.
content_copy
While initializing, the Output panel displays the following:

Building flutter tool...
Running pub upgrade...
Resolving dependencies...
Got dependencies.
Downloading Material fonts...
Downloading Gradle Wrapper...
Downloading package sky_engine...
Downloading flutter_patched_sdk tools...
Downloading flutter_patched_sdk_product tools...
Downloading windows-x64 tools...
Downloading windows-x64/font-subset tools...
content_copy
This process also runs flutter doctor -v. At this point in the procedure, ignore this output. Flutter Doctor might show errors that don't apply to this quick start.

When the Flutter install succeeds, VS Code displays this pop-up notification:

Do you want to add the Flutter SDK to PATH so it's accessible
in external terminals?
content_copy
Click Add SDK to PATH.

When successful, a notification displays:

The Flutter SDK was added to your PATH
content_copy
VS Code may display a Google Analytics notice.

If you agree, click OK.

To enable flutter in all PowerShell windows:

Close, then reopen all PowerShell windows.
Restart VS Code.
Check your development setup
#
help
Help

Run Flutter doctor
#
The flutter doctor command validates that all components of a complete Flutter development environment for Windows.

Open PowerShell.

To verify your installation of all the components, run the following command.

PS C:> flutter doctor
content_copy
As you chose to develop for desktop, you do not need all components. If you followed this guide, the result of your command should resemble:

Running flutter doctor...
Doctor summary (to see all details, run flutter doctor -v):
[✓] Flutter (Channel stable, 3.22.1, on Microsoft Windows 11 [Version 10.0.22621.3155], locale en)
[✓] Windows version (Installed version of Windows is version 10 or higher)
[!] Android toolchain - develop for Android devices
[!] Chrome - develop for the web
[✓] Visual Studio - develop Windows apps (version 2022)
[!] Android Studio (not installed)
[✓] VS Code (version 1.89)
[✓] Connected device (1 available)
[✓] Network resources


! Doctor found issues in 3 categories.
content_copy
Troubleshoot Flutter doctor issues
#
When the flutter doctor command returns an error, it could be for Flutter, VS Code, Visual Studio, the connected device, or network resources.

If the flutter doctor command returns an error for any of these components, run it again with the verbose flag.

PS C:> flutter doctor -v
content_copy
Check the output for other software you might need to install or further tasks to perform.

If you change the configuration of your Flutter SDK or its related components, run flutter doctor again to verify the installation.

Start developing Windows desktop apps with Flutter
#
Congratulations! Now that you have installed all prerequisites and the Flutter SDK, you should be able to start developing Flutter apps for Windows desktop.

